Natural language processing (NLP) for sentimental analysis plays an important role in text mining analysis. This project aims to apply NLP and sentimental analysis techniques in two datasets, Hillary Clinton's emails during her stay as the United States secretary of state and Twitter US airline sentiment. Due to Hillary Clinton's controversy over the use of personal email accounts on non-government servers in that period, the State Department released her emails to public. Data scientists try to unravel how the content of Clinton's emails affect US emotion and behaviors with other countries around the world. The second dataset was scraped from Twitter in February of 2015 and contributors were asked to first classify positive, negative and neural tweets followed by categorizing negative reasons such as "late flight" or "rude service".

In Hillary Clinton's emails, since the categorical variable "sentiment" is not given, we manually labeled sentiments for around 250 comments with three levels of sentiments, happy, unhappy and neutral. Bag of words and different vectorizers, 1-gram, n-grams, df-idf have been explored during NLP. Meanwhile, conventional machine learning methods, Naive Bayes(NB), Support Vector Machine(SVM) and Logistic Regression(LR) were used for the small dataset. However, for large data modeling, the conventional machine learning method may be not a good fit. To explore sentiment analysis in large dataset, deep learning methods Long Short Term Memory(LSTM), a special method of Recursive Neural Network(RNN) was studied for Twitter US airline sentiment. 

In the results, we found RNN methods in larger training data performs a higher accuracy than classical machine learning models. Different vertorizers like 1-gram, 2-grams or N-grams where N is even bigger and tf-idf generate different results in different models. Even though our datasets are quite unbalanced, by using NLP and sentimental analysis tools, we still obtained acceptable predicted categorical variable for these two datasets. 

